dashboard/dev-info/components/notifications-page.md, before:

---  
layout: default  
title: Notifications Page Components
parent: React  
grand_parent: Dashboard
has_toc: false
permalink: /docs/dashboard/react/notifications-page
---  

# Notifications Page Components
{: .no_toc }



## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Notification Page

Notifications Page is a component that contains sub-components that display device data, gives users ability to adjust thresholds, and alerts the user for any spikes or dips in the data collected by the devices.

**Props used:**
No props are being currently used as the component isn't fully functional yet.

**Functions implemented:**
- *fetchAllSensorIds*:Takes no arguments. Calls the API responsible for getting Ids of all the active devices. 
    - This function is used in useEffect and in the current layout, it helps set up a hook(allSensorIds) which is used in other functions.
- *fetchSensorCurrentDetails*: Takes sensor Id as an argument, makes API call for that particular device and gets all the data that was collected by it. 
    - This function will be used to update device details in the Sensor Details Tab (currently not fully functional).
- *fetchAllSensorsCurrentDetails*: Similar to fetchSensorCurrentDetails, but gets data for all the devices all at once. The reason for having this function is that it might be beneficial to grab all the data in one go, so tests can be performed using this function.  
    - Currently, this function is not being used.
- *sensorDetails*: Takes the hook(allSensorIds) as an argument. displays data for each device in the Sensor Details tab. fetchSensorCurrentDetails gets called within this function but the function call is currently not working.
    - This is used to generate sub-components to populate the Sensor Details tab.
- *assignedThresholds*: Takes the hook(allSensorIds) as an argument. Currently, only the devices dropdown is being populated dynamically, and the rest is hardcoded. However, once fully functional, this tab will help users adjust thresholds for all the active devices.

{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }"

Commit message:

added device management page documentation

dashboard/dev-info/components/notifications-page.md, after:

---  
layout: default  
title: Notifications Page Components
parent: React  
grand_parent: Dashboard
has_toc: false
permalink: /docs/dashboard/react/device-management-page
---  

# Device Management Page Components
{: .no_toc }



## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Device Management Page

Device Management page contains components that helps the user to edit device name, thresholds for entities measured by buoys, buoy name, and buoy location.

<!-- **Props used:**
No props are being currently used as the component isn't fully functional yet. -->

**Functions implemented:**
- *deviceManageEditSection*: Displays the available buoys that are transmitting data.
- *deviceManagePanel*: This component helps change the name, colour, latitude, longitude, threshold, and the message that is being sent in by the devices.
- *editLocation*: Helper function for deviceManagePanel. This function helps in setting the latitude and longitude for the selected buoy.

- *editName*:Helper function for deviceManagePanel. This function helps in changing the assigned name for a buoy.

- *editThresholds*:Helper function for deviceManagePanel. This function helps in changing the assigned threshold for an entity that's being measured by the buoy.

- *editThresholdValue*: Helper function for editThresholds. This function helps in assigning values to a threshold entity.

- *saveChangesButton*: Helper function for deviceManagePanel. This function helps in saving all the changes made by the user in the deviceManagePanel.
  
{: .fs-6 .fw-300 }
