sensors/atlas/ec.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Electrical Conductivity
parent: Atlas
grand_parent: Sensors
permalink: /docs/sensors/atlas/ec/
---

# Electrical Conductivity Sensor
{: .no_toc }
## Atlas
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Summary

A Electrical Conductivity sensor.

Name: Conductivity K 0.1 Kit 
Link: https://atlas-scientific.com/kits/conductivity-k-0-1-kit/
Calibration: Calibrated against buffer solutions provided in the kit
Type: Analog 
Operational Range: 1 to 50 degrees C
Unit: µs
Range:  0.07µs to 50,000µs
Maintenance: ~6 Months
Life Expenctancy: 2.5 years 
---

## JSON 
## TBD

<!-- {% highlight markdown %}
```js
// Javascript code with syntax highlighting.
var fun = function lang(l) {
  dateformat.i18n = require('./lang/' + l)
  return true;
}
```
{% endhighlight %} -->

<!-- --- -->

<!-- ## Code blocks with rendered examples

To demonstrate front end code, sometimes it's useful to show a rendered example of that code. After including the styles from your project that you'll need to show the rendering, you can use a `<div>` with the `code-example` class, followed by the code block syntax. If you want to render your output with Markdown instead of HTML, use the `markdown="1"` attribute to tell Jekyll that the code you are rendering will be in Markdown format... This is about to get meta...

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```

</div>
{% highlight markdown %}
<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```
{% endhighlight %} -->

Commit message:

updated documentation for atlas sensors

sensors/atlas/ec.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Electrical Conductivity
parent: Atlas
grand_parent: Sensors
permalink: /docs/sensors/atlas/ec/
---

# Electrical Conductivity Sensor
{: .no_toc }
## Atlas
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Summary

An electrical conductivity sensor measures the electrical conductivity in a solution.
Inside the probe, there are two electrodes positioned opposite from eachother. An AC voltage is applied to the electrodes which causes cations to move to the negatively charged eletrode and the anion to move to the positively charged eletrode. 
The more free electrolutes the liquid contains, the higher the electrical conductivity. 
It works by measuring electrical current of the solution between two graphite plates. 

Name: Conductivity K 0.1 Kit 

Link: https://atlas-scientific.com/kits/conductivity-k-0-1-kit/

Calibration: Calibrated against buffer solutions provided in the kit

Type: Analog 

Operational Range: 1 to 50 degrees C

Unit: µs

Range:  0.07µs to 50,000µs

Maintenance: ~6 Months

Life Expenctancy: 2.5 years 

---
## Maintenance

Cleaning:

For soft coatings, the probe can be cleaning by light brushing. 

For hard coatings, the recommended method is using the [cleaner from Atlas Science] (https://atlas-scientific.com/calibration-solutions/e-c-probe-cleaner/) 

## Calibration 
The grpahite plates in this sensor do not go bad, nor do they change. No additional calibration is needed after initial calibration.

## Operational Tips
The entried conducting area must be submerged in order to get accurate readings. 

## JSON 
## TBD

<!-- {% highlight markdown %}
```js
// Javascript code with syntax highlighting.
var fun = function lang(l) {
  dateformat.i18n = require('./lang/' + l)
  return true;
}
```
{% endhighlight %} -->

<!-- --- -->

<!-- ## Code blocks with rendered examples

To demonstrate front end code, sometimes it's useful to show a rendered example of that code. After including the styles from your project that you'll need to show the rendering, you can use a `<div>` with the `code-example` class, followed by the code block syntax. If you want to render your output with Markdown instead of HTML, use the `markdown="1"` attribute to tell Jekyll that the code you are rendering will be in Markdown format... This is about to get meta...

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```

</div>
{% highlight markdown %}
<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```
{% endhighlight %} -->
