sensors/atlas/ph.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: PH
parent: Atlas
grand_parent: Sensors
permalink: /docs/sensors/atlas/ph/
---

# PH Sensor
{: .no_toc }
## Atlas
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Summary

A PH sensor.

---

## JSON 
## TBD
<!-- <div class="code-example" markdown="1">
```json
{
  name: "ph",       # string
  data_type: "pH",  # string
  data_value:       # float
}
```
</div> -->

<!-- {% highlight markdown %}
```js
// Javascript code with syntax highlighting.
var fun = function lang(l) {
  dateformat.i18n = require('./lang/' + l)
  return true;
}
```
{% endhighlight %} -->

<!-- --- -->

<!-- ## Code blocks with rendered examples

To demonstrate front end code, sometimes it's useful to show a rendered example of that code. After including the styles from your project that you'll need to show the rendering, you can use a `<div>` with the `code-example` class, followed by the code block syntax. If you want to render your output with Markdown instead of HTML, use the `markdown="1"` attribute to tell Jekyll that the code you are rendering will be in Markdown format... This is about to get meta...

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```

</div>
{% highlight markdown %}
<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```
{% endhighlight %} -->

Commit message:

updated Atlas Ph summary with official docs description

sensors/atlas/ph.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: PH
parent: Atlas
grand_parent: Sensors
permalink: /docs/sensors/atlas/ph/
---

# PH Sensor
{: .no_toc }
## Atlas
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

## Summary

The Atlas pH (potential of Hydrogen) probe measures the hydrogen ion activity in a liquid.
At the tip of a pH probe is a glass membrane. This glass membrane permits hydrogen
ions from the liquid being measured to defuse into the outer layer of the glass, while
larger ions remain in the solution. The difference in the concentration of hydrogen ions
(outside the probe vs. inside the probe) creates a VERY small current. This current is
proportional to the concentration of hydrogen ions in the liquid being measured.

[More Info](https://files.atlas-scientific.com/pH_EZO_Datasheet.pdf)
---

## JSON 
## TBD
<!-- <div class="code-example" markdown="1">
```json
{
  name: "ph",       # string
  data_type: "pH",  # string
  data_value:       # float
}
```
</div> -->

<!-- {% highlight markdown %}
```js
// Javascript code with syntax highlighting.
var fun = function lang(l) {
  dateformat.i18n = require('./lang/' + l)
  return true;
}
```
{% endhighlight %} -->

<!-- --- -->

<!-- ## Code blocks with rendered examples

To demonstrate front end code, sometimes it's useful to show a rendered example of that code. After including the styles from your project that you'll need to show the rendering, you can use a `<div>` with the `code-example` class, followed by the code block syntax. If you want to render your output with Markdown instead of HTML, use the `markdown="1"` attribute to tell Jekyll that the code you are rendering will be in Markdown format... This is about to get meta...

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```

</div>
{% highlight markdown %}
<div class="code-example" markdown="1">

[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }

</div>
```markdown
[Link button](http://example.com/){: .btn }
```
{% endhighlight %} -->
